---
layout: post
title: Week 15
---

# Back to Work + More Presentations
Following my group's project presentation last week, we got back to work making contributions and got to see what the other groups have been working on.

<!--more-->

## Working on Preswald

For the home stretch of the semester, I am mainly focusing on wrapping up any outstanding contributions and getting them merged. The largest of these is the debug panel, which I am unfortunately still waiting on clarification from the maintainers on before I can PR. It seems that they are very busy with internal matters (perhaps working on a new release), so they have been a bit less active in our Slack channel, but I am hoping to hear back soon. Additionally, two smaller PRs from weeks ago have been reviewed but not merged, so I have been leaning on the maintainers a bit to get those merged soon. 

## Other Groups' Presentations

This week we saw six groups present, covering a variety of topics. One that I was impressed by was the Odin Project, which I frankly expected to be very bland because it seemed very low-code when I first heard about it. However, the group shined in their organization and workflows, as they put together a lot of materials to keep themselves up to date with one another and track their work. Another interesting group was AutoGen, which was a project that I was somewhat pushing my group to choose before we found Preswald. Because of the size and caliber of the project and in turn the amount of work needed to be assigned to issues and have code merged, their contributions seemed to be on the smaller side, but I found the project to be very interesting in general. Finally, the Lucide group impressed me with their graphic design skills, as none of the members seemingly had experience making SVGs but they were able to create several very professional looking icons for the project. I did find it surprising how unprofessional some of their interactions with the maintainers were, as they received some very harsh criticism on a few of their icons, but they took it in stride and still managed to make meaningful contributions. In general I was very excited to see all of the work the other groups put in over the course of the semester and I am looking forward to seeing the last few groups present on Monday!